## Common Q & A
- https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/interviewing/top-interview-questions-and-answers

## References
https://www.interviewbit.com/angular-interview-questions/
https://hackr.io/blog/angular-interview-questions
https://github.com/sudheerj/angular-interview-questions
https://dzone.com/articles/50-top-angular-interview-questions-amp-answers
https://www.akveo.com/blog/top-40-angular-interview-questions-and-answers-that-you-need-to-know-in-2021
https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/interviewing/angular-interview-questions
https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/angular-tutorial/angular-interview-questions


## Question & Answers
1. What are some of the advantages of Angular over other frameworks?
    - Features that are provided out of the box. Angular provides a number of built-in features like,
        - routing
        - state management
        - rxjs library
        - http service
    - Declarative UI
        - angular uses HTML to render the UI of an application
    - Long Term Support
2. Differences between AngularJS and Angular
    - Architecture
        - AngularJS uses MVC architecture
        - Angular uses modules & components 
    - Language
        - AngularJS uses javascript language, which is a dynamically typed language.
        - Angular uses typescript, which is static typed and is a super set of javascript.
    - Mobile Support
        - AngularJS does not provide mobile support
        - Angular is supported by all popular mobile browsers.
    - Structure
        - if the app is larger, process of maintaing the code becomes tedious in the case of AngularJS
        - It's easier to maintain code in a large app with Angular becuase of it's larger structure.

3. What is AOT compilation? What are the advantages of AOT?
    - In JIT compilation, the application compiles inside the browser during runtime.
    - Whereas in the AOT compilation, the application compiles during the build time.

    Advantages
        - Since the application compiles before running inside the browser, the browser loads the executable code and renders the application immediately, which leads to faster rendering.
        - In AOT compilation, the compiler sends the external HTML and CSS files along with the application, eliminating separate AJAX requests for those source files, which leads to fewer ajax requests.
        - Developers can detect and handle errors during the building phase, which helps in minimizing errors.
        - The AOT compiler adds HTML and templates into the JS files before they run inside the browser. Due to this, there are no extra HTML files to be read, which provide better security to the application.
4. Explain angular Modules? 
    - A module is a place where we can group components, directives, services, and pipes. 
    - Module decides whether the components, directives, etc can be used by other modules, by exporting or hiding these elements. 
    - Every module is defined with a @NgModule decorator.
5. What are different types of modules?
    - Root Module
        - A root module imports BrowserModule
    - Feature Module
        - a feature module imports CommonModule.
6. What are services?
    - Services are objects which get instantiated only once during the lifetime of an application. 
    - The main objective of a service is to share data, functions with different components of an Angular application.
    - A service is defined using a @Injectable decorator. 
    - A function defined inside a service can be invoked from any component or directive.
    ```ts
    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

      @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root'
      })
      export class TestServiceService {

        constructor() { }

      }
    ```
7. Explain string interpolation and property binding in Angular.
    - String interpolation and property binding are parts of data-binding in Angular
    - data binding is a way to communicate between the component and it's Template
    - data-binding can be done in two ways, one-way binding and two-way binding.
    - String interpolation and property binding allow only one-way data binding.
    - String interpolation uses the double curly braces {{ }} to display data from the component.
    - Using property binding, we can bind the DOM properties of an HTML element to a component's property. I uses the square brackets [] syntax.
8. How are observables different from Promises
    - Observables
        - Emits multiple values over a period of time
        - Lazy
        - Can be cancelled using unsubscribe() method
        - observable cane be both synchronous and asynchronous
        - Observable provides operators like map, forEach, filter, reduce, retry, retryWhen etc.
    - Promises
        - Emits a single value
        - Not Lazy
        - Cannot be cancelled
        - promises are always asynchronous
9. How to do server side rendering?
    - Using angular universal
        - https://angular.io/guide/universal
10. What are directives in Angular
    - declared with @Directive decorator
    - Every directive have it's own behaviour and can be imported into various components of an application
11. Types of Directives
    1. Component Directives
        - components
    2. Strucural Directives
        - directives that change the DOM layout by adding and removing DOM elements.
        - starting with a *
    3. Attribute Directives
        - These directives are used to change the look and behaviour of a DOM element.
12. Built in Directives
    1. Attribute Directives
        - NgClass — adds and removes a set of CSS classes.
        - NgStyle — adds and removes a set of HTML styles.
        - NgModel — adds two-way data binding to an HTML form element.
    2. Structural Directives
        - *ngIf
        - *ngFor
        - *ngSwitch
13. How to Share data between components
    