## Azure Key Vault
- Azure Key Vault Enables the users to store and use cryptographic within the microsoft azure environment.
- Cloud hosted, HSM (Hardware security Modules )- backend service for managing cryptographic keys and other secrets
- Initial release supported only RSA keys.
    - RSA is an asymmetric public-private key cryptosystem. 
    - It uses two keys. A public key and a private key
    - The public key is used to encrypt the data and the private key is used to decrypt the data.
    - The private key does not leave the key vault boundary

### Secrets in Azure Key Vault
    - Octet sequences with no semantics
    - Connection strings, password, storage account keys, pfx files etc.. can be stored in secrets.

## How it works
- Key vault exposes the keys are secrets over a rest api for applications to use
- both keys and secrets are referred to as objects in key vault.  
- these objects are uniquely identified within azure key vault using a url such that no two objects have the same url.
- the url consists of 
    {object-type} - key or secrets
    {object-name} - specified by user at creation
    {object-version} -- it's optional. If specified, it will take that version. Otherwise it will take the latest available version.
    - creation of a new instance with the same object gives the new object a unique version identifier and causes it becomes the latest version.
    https://{keyvault-name}.vault.azure.net/{object-type}/{object-name}/{object-version}

## How to Retrieve it
    - For an application to retrieve the secret from the vault, it needs to authenticate with the vault using a token from the Azure Active Directory (AD) application.
