## Tech Skills
- Supporting different browsers (IE 11+ , Chore, Mozilla), screen sizes(responsive) and i18n.
- Doing unit testing using Jest and Cypress.
- Strong experience in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Responsive Development.
- Design and Architect reusable components
- Design and architecting Micro-Frontend applications.
- Hands-on and influence team for front-end testing
- Advanced JavaScript patterns, MV*, Testing.
- Developing Microservices using NodeJS.
- Hands-on experience on Websockets for real time events, authentication mechanisms using JWT token, API Integration.
- Implementing the UI based on the mockups using tools like Figma, and Invision.

- Experience in:
- Performance analysis.
- Caching mechanisms.
- Cross-Platform / Cross-Browser development.
- Coding best practices (Error-Handling, Memory leaks etc.).
- API caching.
- Code review.
- Mono Repo.
- Git workflow.
- Code Bundling
- Async Programming.

- Good to have
- Understanding of Microservices.
- Understanding of Windows services, and .NET/C#.
- Experience Creating and maintaining CI & CD build pipelines using Jenkins and GitHub including Automating the deployments and testing of builds.
- Experience in ElectronJS.
- Experience on MongoDB or any document based Database.


- Soft Skills
- Excellent Communication skills (Written and Oral) in English.

- Collaborating with UX designers for mockup analysis and providing feedback using tools like Figma, and Invision.
- Engage with Architects, and Product team to comprehend functional challenges, prototype new ideas, and new technologies, and help to create innovative solutions.
- Mentor UI engineers, which may include performing code reviews. Suggest tools, technologies, and best practices that improve stability.