## Singleton
### Definition
- Singleton is a creational design pattern that lets you ensure that a class has only one instance, while providing a global access point to this instance.
- The most common reason for this is to control access to some shared resource—for example, a database or a file.

### What it solves
1. Ensures that a class has just a single instance **(By making the default constructor private)**
    - imagine that you created an object, but after a while decided to create a new one. Instead of receiving a fresh object, you'll get the one you already created.
    - Note that this behavior is impossible to implement with a regular constructor since a constructor call must always return a new object by design.
    - The most common reason for this is to control access to some shared resource—for example, a database or a file.
2. provide a global access point to that instance
    - the Singleton pattern lets you access some object from anywhere in the program. However, it also protects that instance from being overwritten by other code.

### Implementation
All implementations of the Singleton have these two steps in common:

1. Make the default constructor private, to prevent other objects from using the new operator with the Singleton class.
2. Create a static creation method that acts as a constructor. Under the hood, this method calls the private constructor to create an object and saves it in a static field. All following calls to this method return the cached object.

If your code has access to the Singleton class, then it's able to call the Singleton's static method. So whenever that method is called, the same object is always returned.

```csharp
public class Singleton 
{
    private static Singleton _instance;
    // The Singleton's constructor should always be private to prevent direct construction calls with the `new` operator.
    private Singleton() {}

    public static Singleton GetInstance()
    {
        if(_instance == null) {
            _instance = new Singleton();
        }
        return _instance;
    }

    public static void someBusinessLogic()
    {
        // ...
    }
}
```

### Thread-safe Singleton
- you have to synchronize threads during the first creation of the Singleton object.
```csharp
public class Singleton
{
    private static Singleton _instance;
    private static readonly object _lock = new object();

    private Singleton() {}

    public static Singleton GetInstance()
    {
        if(_instance == null){
            lock(_lock)
            {
                if(_instance == null) {
                    _instance = new Singleton();
                }
            }
        }
        return _instance;
    }
}
```