# Network Security
## Symmetric Key (Single-Key) encryption 
- When same key is used to encrypt and decrypt plaintext.
- We can use a symmetric key between client and server to ensure secure communication.
*Limitation: Shared key is open to the world. Anyone can decrypt and take the info easily.*

## Public Key (Asymmetric / Public-Private Key) Encryption 
### Secure Network Protocol (SSL / TLS) with HTTPS
*This is how we Achieve Public Key Encryption using HTTPS*
1. Once client initiates a secure communication request, server transfer it's public key enclosed within a certificate.
2. Client will verify that this public key is a valid one.
3. If it's a valid certificate, client generates a symmetric key. It encrypts this symmetric key with the public key received.
4. This is transferred to the server.
5. Server decrypt this using the private key.
6. The above steps makes sure a successful **SSL/TLS handshake** is done between client and server.
7. Going forward, uses this symmetric key generated at step 3 is used for encrypt and decrypt

## SSL / TLS Protocol
- *SSL (Secure Sockets Layer)*
- *TLS (Transport Layer Security)* - It's an improved version of SSL

## Hashing
- Basic Building Block of Cryptography
- Widely used in Digital Signatures & Digital Certificates
- Hashing is a one-way algorithm
- Generates same output for same text
- Slightest change in the text changes the hash value drastically
1. MD-5 (Message Direct)
    - 128 bits
2. SHA-1 (not used anymore)
    - 160 bits
3. SHA-2
    - 256, 512 bits
4. SHA-3 (newest one. Not used much.)

## Digital Signatures
- they are a way of validating authenticity and integrity of a message or digital document.
### Signing
1. Signer will generate hash of entire document or message
2. Signer's private key is used to encrypt the hash code generated in step 1 to generate the signature.
3. Combine the original document, signature and the the certificate, and then send to receiver.
### Verification
1. Split the contents to document, signatrue and certificate.
2. Generates the hash from the document.
3. Take the public key of sender from certificate. Decrypt the signature and gets the hash
4. Compares hash from step 1 & step 3
5. If either step 3 or step 4 are failed, the content is tampered. 
6. If either step 3 or step 4 are success, the content is valid. 

## Digital Certificates
- Way of sharing the public key with the world, in a trusted manner.
- Any client should be able to verify who owns the public key.
- they will be carried by SSL/TLS protocol over TCP
### What is a Digital Certificate?
1. They are documents which have public key of owner.
2. They will have the identifying information about it's author.
3. These are further signed by **Digital Certificate Authority** with it's private key
4. There will be a validity attribute also

### How is the certification verification happen?
1. Most OS have the public keys of Root Certificate Authorities.
2. Certificate is downloaded by the client, while trying to access a url providing certificate.
3. Client can check who's the certificate authority pulled from step 1
4. use that information to Decrypt the signature and gets the hash of the document
5. Now we can hash the document and compare with the hash obtained at step 4

## Certifying Authorities Hierarchy of Trust (Chain of Trust)
1. Root CA
2. Tier 2 CA *(Authorized by Root CA)*
3. Tier 3 CA *(Authorized by Tier 2 CA)*

## Secure Network Channel

## Firewall
### Two Functions
1. Allow
2. Deny
### Two Types of Communication
1. Ingress (Incoming)
    - Source IP Range
    - Target IP Range
    - Target Port
    - Protocol
2. Egress (Outgoing)
    - Destination IP Range
    - Target IP Range
    - Target Port
    - Protocol

## Network Security
